# final-project-repositories-carsonou-phucnguyen

Project Participants: Carson Ou and Phuc Nguyen

23 April, 2023

INFO 201

Final Project Proposal

  For our final project, we decided we wanted to look more into the prominence of electric powered cars in the state of Washington. We wanted to compare the population of electric cars to the prominence of electric vehicle charging stations, and wanted to find out whether one of these factors caused the other. For instance, did the increase in electric cars in the state of Washington increase the demand for electric vehicle charging stations, or did the abundance of electric vehicle charging stations lead to an increase the number of electric vehicles in a specific area? Which factors led to the increase of electric vehicles and electric vehicle charging stations, and are they connected to each other at all?
  
  Additionally, we wanted to look at trends within our data as well. Were there any brands or models of electric vehicles that were more popular than the rest? Was there a particular year where the population of electric vehicles grew the most, or has it been steadily increasing year after year? As for the electric vehicle charging stations, was there a trend as to where they were concentrated? Does wealth or population of a certain area affect the abundance of electric vehicle charging stations? These are all questions that we hope to find the answer to in our analysis of the data.
  
  With this data, we hope to plot out a story of the growth and development of electric vehicles and electric vehicle charging stations over time, perhaps in a geographic and/or chronological context. For instance, perhaps we can present our data in a timeline, finding key dates and events that may have led to increases in electric vehicles and electric vehicle charging stations. We could also present our data as a map, showing which cities or counties in Washington had the greatest concentration of electric vehicles and electric vehicle charging stations. 
  
  Perhaps the most difficult part of this project will be parsing the data and determining which parts of the data are important to our story. Both datasets are very dense and have many variables, some of which are not relevant to the story we are trying to tell, so trimming the data down to just the relevant observations and variables will be the first cause of action. Additionally, determining how to present our data would also be difficult, as we would need to decide as to how we want to show these trends over time, their geographical significance, and how they correlate to one another, if at all. 
  
  As for our datasets, we have two datasets from two different sources. Our first dataset is a dataset that “shows the Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs) and Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles (PHEVs) that are currently registered through Washington State Department of Licensing (DOL)”, according to wa.gov. This dataset was acquired from Data.gov and has 124,717 observations and 17 variables. Some of the variables aren’t important, and there are some vehicles in the dataset that are registered to other states, so we will probably exclude those observations as well. Our second dataset is a dataset of all the alternative fueling stations in the United States and is updated daily from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) and is part of the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT)/Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS) National Transportation Atlas Database (NTAD)," according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics. This dataset was acquired from the United States Department of Transportation and has 71,516 observations and 51 variables. Many of these variables are irrelevant to our story, and there are also many observations that are electric vehicle charging stations located outside of the state of Washington, so we will look to exclude those observations in our final analysis.
  
  Additionally, there were five sources of inspiration and background research that inspired us to research this topic. The first source was found at https://afdc.energy.gov/fuels/electricity_locations.html#/find/nearest?fuel=ELEC, and this web application inspired us to focus on the idea of finding the correlation between EVs and EV charging stations. Our project idea connects directly to this data source which shows the amount of EV charging locations in the United States, which consumers can use to view the nearby location of EV charging stations, and our idea dives further than just this data model, into the idea of supply and demand, in a sense, the rate of change between EV and EV charging stations. 

  Our second source was found at https://www.kgw.com/article/news/local/the-story/oregon-washington-all-electric-vehicle-future/283-eee2c3bf-6cdf-4f3e-96f9-bd21bc41ca40, and the main idea of this article was to show that Washington and Oregon want to ban all gas-powered vehicles by the year 2035. Connecting to our project, we want to track down the trend between the rate of growth in EVs, furthermore, the growth that would occur correspondingly of charging stations. However, unlike the article, we will not be looking at the financial and health changes within the area of change, nor tracking how it would affect the community.
  
  Our third source was found at https://www.washingtonpost.com/transportation/2023/01/26/dc-evs-electric-vehicles/, as both the source and our project idea concern the transition to EVs and the need for charging infrastructure to support it. While our project idea focuses on the Washington area, the text does not mention a specific region. The text also provides more detail on the progress of the transition to EVs and the challenges involved, whereas our project is more focused on the connection between EVs and EV charging stations.
  
  Our fourth source was found at https://www.commerce.wa.gov/growing-the-economy/energy/electric-vehicles/resources-govt-agencies/, and the connection between our project idea and this article is that we focus on the corresponding rates of EVs and EV charging stations. The text also talks about how the development and investment are growing between EV and charging stations in the Washington region. While both the text and us are focused on the Washington region, the article leans more towards growth near the highways in Washington.
  
  Our fifth and final source was found at https://innovate.dti.gov.ph/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/HBN-4075-Electric-Vehicles-and-Charging-Stations-Act.pdf, which talks on the topic of EVs and EV charging stations being regulated in the Philippines. This correlates to our idea of determining the contemporary relationship between the two, but the text states information about another part of the world, not directly on Washington. These five sources all inspired us to choose the project topic that we did, and helped give us some background ideas and basic information about our research focus.
